New Asset Dev Guide files (#686)
osisoft/OCS-Docs: content/developer-guide/asset-dev/asset-and-asset-types-dev-guide.md

﻿---
uid: asset-and-asset-types-dev-guide
---

# Assets

> The asset API allows you to programmatically model your on-premises assets in OSIsoft Cloud Services (OCS). A single stream with its metadata can be used to model very simple assets. However, in most instances, an asset relates to dynamic data from several streams and to static information that describe the asset. This is better structured as an asset instead of any single stream. The assets feature is well suited to model these aspects of an asset. It allows users to create an asset, add static metadata, and reference streams in a standard, structured way. The asset API includes search capabilities and features to directly retrieve the values of dynamic data associated with a given asset. It also provides methods to configure determining the asset status and to configure different user views of an asset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The asset API allows you to programmatically model your on-premises assets in OSIsoft Cloud Services (OCS). A single stream with its metadata can be used to model very simple assets. However, in most instances, an asset relates to dynamic data from several streams and to static information that describe the asset. This is better structured as an asset instead of any single stream. The assets feature allows users to create an asset, add static metadata, and reference streams in a standard, structured way. The asset API includes search capabilities and features to directly retrieve the values of dynamic data associated with a given asset. It also provides methods to configure determining the asset status and to configure different user views of an asset.
```

| Name          | String            | Yes         | User-friendly name. If not specified, name will be set to the same value as the `Id` field. | Yes  | Yes            |
| Description   | String            | Yes         | User-provided description                                   | Yes  | Yes            |
| AssetTypeId   | String            | No          | Identifier for the asset type that this asset is derived from. To get the merged view of the asset, get the resolved asset through the /Assets/{assetId}/Resolved route. | Yes  | No            |
| Metadata      | Metadata List     | Yes         | Asset and asset type metadata                               | Yes  | Yes            |
| StreamReferences   | Stream Reference List  | No       | Asset stream references                                             | Yes  | No            |
| TypeReferences | Type Reference List | No        | Asset type type references                                     | No | Yes            |
| Status | Status | No        | Asset and asset type status configuration | Yes | Yes            |

## Asset and asset type name and id

> The asset and asset type resource has name and id properties. The id property cannot be changed and can be count on to remain constant. All asset and asset type API calls depend on the id. The purpose of the name is be a user-friendly way of displaying a given asset or asset type. This can be changed freely without effecting data egress out of assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The asset and asset type resource has name and Id properties. The Id property cannot be changed; it remains constant. All asset and asset type API calls depend on the Id. The purpose of the name is be a user-friendly way of displaying a given asset or asset type. This can be changed freely without effecting data egress from assets.
```

## Asset and asset type metadata properties

> An asset or asset type metadata is static information associated with a given asset. A given metadata contains a list of individual metadata values.  There is no limit on the number of metadata values defined by an asset. An asset or asset type metadata does not stand alone. It must be specified within an asset or asset type object and, therefore, there are no direct API routes to asset or asset type metadata.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An asset or asset type metadata is static information associated with a given asset. A given metadata contains a list of individual metadata values.  There is no limit on the number of metadata values defined by an asset. An asset or asset type metadata does not stand alone. It must be specified within an asset or asset type object; therefore, there are no direct API routes to asset or asset type metadata.
```

| Name        | String | Optional | User-friendly name for the metadata value. If not null, must be unique within an asset or asset type. |
| Description | String | Optional  | User-provided description.                                   |
| SdsTypeCode | Int    | Optional | This integer corresponds to the SdsTypeCode. Asset metadata support the following integer or string values: 11 ("Int64"), 14 ("Double"), 16 ("DateTime"), and 18 ("String"). |
| Uom         | String | Optional  | Asset metadata unit of measurement (UOM). Select from the list of supported UOM types. |
| Value       | String | Optional  | String representation of the metadata.                      |

\* The`Id` property is not required if the `Name` property matches a `Name` on the asset type metadata. In this case, the `Id` of the metadata on the asset is inherited from the metadata `Id` of the asset type. This also applies when an asset is updated.

\* If the `Id` property is not specified, the `Name` property must be specified. In this case, a random GUID will be assigned as the `Id` on the metadata.

## Asset stream reference properties

> An asset stream reference represents dynamic stream data associated with an asset. The references must either be an SDS stream. Asset-centric data routes provide direct access to dynamic data for a given asset. There are no limitations on the number of references an asset may contain. However, an asset cannot contain multiple references to the same SDS stream. An asset stream reference does not stand alone. It must be specified within an asset object and, therefore, asset references do not have direct API routes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An asset stream reference represents dynamic stream data associated with an asset. The references must be an SDS stream. Asset-centric data routes provide direct access to dynamic data for a given asset. There are no limitations on the number of references an asset may contain. However, an asset cannot contain multiple references to the same SDS stream. An asset stream reference does not stand alone. It must be specified within an asset object; therefore, asset references do not have direct API routes. 
```

| Property      | Type   | Required? | Description                                                  |
| ------------- | ------ | --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Id            | String | Required*  | Identifier for the stream reference object.  The identifier must be unique within the asset. |
| Name          | String | Optional | User-friendly name for the stream reference object. If not null, must be unique within an asset. |
| Description   | String | Optional  | Description text.                                          |
| StreamId      | String | Required  | The SDS stream `Id` of this stream reference. |

\* The`Id` property is not required if the `Name` property matches a `Name` on the asset type type reference. In this case, the `Id` of the stream reference on the asset is inherited from the type reference `Id` of the asset type. This also applies when an asset is updated.

\* If the `Id` property is not specified, the `Name` property must be specified. In this case, a random GUID will be assigned as the `Id` on the stream reference.

## Asset type type reference properties

> An asset type type reference represents dynamic stream data associated with an asset. The references must either be an SDS stream or an SDS stream view. Asset-centric data routes provide direct access to dynamic data for a given asset. There are no limitations on the number of references an asset may contain. However, an asset cannot contain multiple references to the same SDS stream. An asset reference does not stand alone. It must be specified within an asset object and, therefore, asset references do not have direct API routes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An asset type type reference represents dynamic stream data associated with an asset. The references must either be an SDS stream or an SDS stream view. Asset-centric data routes provide direct access to dynamic data for a given asset. There are no limitations on the number of references an asset may contain. However, an asset cannot contain multiple references to the same SDS stream. An asset reference does not stand alone. It must be specified within an asset object; therefore, asset references do not have direct API routes. 
```
